# Protocol Distribution
Once a Protocol has been configured for Sensus, it must be distributed to participant phones. First, you must obtain the Protocol .json file (e.g., by sharing tapping the Protocol within the Sensus app, selecting Share, and sending the Protocol to yourself via email). You can then distribute the Protocol .json file in one of several ways:

  1. Email attachment:  You can send the Protocol .json file to participants via email attachment. Upon receipt the participant will tap the attachment to load it into Sensus. Note that not all email apps are compatible with this approach.
  1. Via HTTP URL:  You can post the Protocol .json file to web-accessible server (e.g., Dropbox) and distribute the file's URL to participants. From within the Sensus app, the participant can add the Protocol by URL.
  1. Via QR-coded HTTP URL:  This is similar to the previous approach, but relies on the Sensus QR code scanner to obtain the URL of the protocol. This supports a convenient use case in which participants are provided a printed paper containing the QR code. The user need only open the Sensus app and add the Protocol using the built-in QR code scanner.

## Common sharing/loading issues:
* If participants are using an iPhone with the Gmail app, they will not be able to load protocols via email attachment or URL embedded within an email. Instead, they will need to copy (press and hold) the URL in their email, open Safari, and paste the URL into the address bar. This is a limitation of iOS, and we have not found a solution for it. Please email us at uva.ptl@gmail.com if you encounter this problem.

## Locking and Unlocking a Protocol
As the experimenter, you can lock a Protocol (i.e., make it read-only) by tapping the Protocol, selecting "Lock", and entering a password. Recipients of the Protocol will be able to load the locked Protocol into Sensus and start/stop it; however, they will not be able to edit the Protocol's configuration without the password.

## Preventing Protocol Sharing
As the experimenter, you might wish to supply a Protocol to study participants via a webpage that you maintain. This can be achieved by following the tips above (sharing the file with yourself and posting it to a webpage accessible to your study participants). Furthermore, you might wish to ensure that participants cannot share the Protocol from their Sensus app after they have loaded it and joined the study. That is, you may wish to ensure that participants only join your study by loading the Protocol from an HTTP hyperlink served up from your study's webpage. This might be necessary, for example, if your website provides consent information that participants must view before joining the study. To accomplish this, disable <xref:Sensus.Protocol.Shareable> and then lock the Protocol with a password. You can then post the Protocol to your study's website for loading into Sensus via HTTP hyperlink, but study participants will not be able to directly share the loaded Protocol with others.